# CS50-FinalProject
### CS50 BANKING !
A low-level website to simulate transactions. Made as a final project to the online course CS50: Introduction to Computer Science at Harvard through EdX. 

## Skills acquired:
- Was able to use the web application framework: FLASK, as a means to connect to both the database and the UI in which the program could receive user actions.
- Made use of HTML to design the layout of the banking website
- Also used CSS to standardize the styles for various pieces of the program.
- Used SQL/Databases for the first time to store information regarding accounts for an individual account on the webapp.

#### Video Demo:  <Uhttps://youtu.be/cYwrWxDxrxA>
#### Specifics:
- 1): My project, in short is a banking program designed to help keep track of your deposits and withdrawals. Although simple, the program can be used in aid of certain money-based games like Monopoly.
- 2): I included multiple files in my project, including numerous html files, databases, and python files. I used some of the syntax from a previous project in order to use a port for my project as well as the styling.
- 3): Starting with the file titled app.py, I used flask to code different functions inside of the different html files, and imported things like flash and datetime.
- 4): Inside of layout.html, we can see the general layout of the homepage, login page, etc. This generally contains the basis for the page and where the html styles come into play.
- 5): Then, inside of login.html, I coded the project to take a username and a password, check it against it's database and make sure both matched. If it had not, the user was taken to another screen (error.html) in which they would need to navigate back to the login and try again. For register.html, I allowed the user to choose their username and password and add it to the database. An error occurs if the confirmed password did not match the actual password typed. Furthermore, for changepass.html, I was able to successfully change the user's password should they forget. The changes take place immediately and again, if the confirmed password did not match the actual password, an error occured. The program works so that it will not let a user see their finances if 1) their username already exists when they register, 2)their username does not exist within the database when they login, 3)their passwords do not match within the confirmation on either the login or register, 4)or the password is simply incorrect in the login page. The page error.html displays the issue in a way that the user can still navigate their way back to the main login or register page with little hastle.
- 6): Then, for withdraw.html and deposit.html, I allowed the user to type an amount which they wanted to either withdraw or deposit. For withdraw, I capped the user when their needed amount exceeded their funds. This information I stored within another table in my database called banking. Within the banking database, there are two tables. One table for users: user id and balance in the bank account. The other table is called transactions for storing information regarding deposits, withdrawals, date, and user id again. The database had a primary key for both tables which was the user id so that traversing through either or connecting either table would serve to be easier. The rest of the information were floats and times. The database was created using SQL.
- 7): In history.html I simply printed out my transactions table in my database. It contained every withdrawal or deposit made since the user created their account and the exact time/date they did so. This is so the user can make sure their transactions are up to date and accurate, if they had mistakenly deposited a sum of money that they had not meant they may withdraw a similar sum. The program works so that the user can enter a float number so that the database can keep track of the transactions all the way to the cent. In addition, in the table I created seperate slots for withdrawals VS transactions because it is easier to read than simply writing "amount" and dictating whether it was a withdrawal or deposit by the negative or positive sign.
- 8): Finally, in index.html, similar to history.html I printed the current balance of the users account, which, is stored in a table within my database in a table titled user (specifically the column titled balance).
- 9): In addition to everything I implemented the @loginrequired function so that certain html pages or links would not show up/result in error if they were attempted to be accessed before the user logged in. As well as this I implemented the flash function to display banners and imported datetime to keep track of the date.
- 10): My design is simplistic and easy to navigate, users can find their way around and there is little room for error. This can readily be used as part of your monopoly play through, that is, unless you have the new credit card version :)
